---
layout: post
title: Subversion 1.6
created: 1244486200
author: liya
permalink: /alm/subversion-16
tags:
- ALM
- svn
---
<p>Subversion is 1.6.2 was released on 11th of May.<br />
<br />
Here are some important new features, enhancements and bug fixes:<br />
- Repository Root relative URLs (client) - use of &quot;short urls&quot; :<br />
&nbsp; <u>Syntax Description:</u> &quot;^/[REL-URL][@PEG]&quot;<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; '^/':&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Represents the root url of the repository<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 'REL_URL': Desired path relative to the root of the repository<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; '@PEG':&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Optional standard peg revision<br />
&nbsp; <u>Examples:</u><br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ^/<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ^/trunk<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ^/branches/1.5.x@25000<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ^/tags/1.4.6/@{2007-12-20T14:<wbr></wbr>37:37.868870Z}<br />
<br />
- Improvements to svn:externals<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; - Support for files in svn:externals<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; - Support usual shell quoting rules in externals definitions<br />
<br />
- Detection of tree conflicts (<em>client</em>):<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Subversion 1.6 recognizes a new kind of conflict, known as a &quot;tree conflict&quot;.</p>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Such conflicts manifest at the level of directory structure, rather than file</p>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; content. <br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Situations now flagged as conflicts include deletions of locally modified files,&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; and incoming edits to locally deleted files. Files and directories which are</p>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; victims of a tree conflict cannot be committed before the conflict is marked</p>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; resolved.<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Note that Subversion is still treating renames as a &quot;copy+delete&quot; operation,</p>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; so file renames causing tree conflicts can only be detected in terms of file</p>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; additions and deletions. Because of this, false positives during tree conflict</p>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; detection are possible.<br />
<br />
- Filesystem Storage Improvements<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Subversion 1.6 contains several improvements to both the Berkeley DB and</p>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; FSFS backends.  These are designed to improve storage space, and can result</p>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; in drastically smaller repositories.<br />
<br />
- Improved interactive conflict resolution (command-line client)<br />
<br />
- Sparse directory exclusion<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; In Subversion 1.6, the <code>--set-depth</code> parameter to <code>svn update</code> has grown a new</p>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; value&mdash;<em>exclude</em>. This value tells Subversion to exclude the target from the</p>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; working copy, immediately and until further notice. Prior to Subversion 1.6, if a</p>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; directory could not easily be removed from a working copy.  If it was deleted</p>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; without the help of Subvesion, it would return on the next <code>svn update</code>.  If it</p>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; was deleted with <code>svn delete</code>, the directory remained as a local modification</p>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; forever. (Unless, of course, it was accidentally committed.)  The new exclusion</p>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; mechanism in Subversion 1.6 fixes both these problems.<br />
<br />
See the full release notes of Subversion 1.6.x here:<br />
<a target="_blank" href="http://subversion.tigris.org/svn_1.6_releasenotes.html">http://subversion.tigris.org/<wbr></wbr>svn_1.6_releasenotes.html</a></p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
