---
layout: post
title: FlexPMD
created: 1277204548
permalink: /js/flexpmd
tags:
- JS
- PMD
- FlexPMD
---
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><a href="http://opensource.adobe.com/wiki/display/flexpmd/FlexPMD">FlexPMD&nbsp;</a>is a tool that helps to improve code quality by auditing any AS3/Flex source directory and detecting common bad practices, such as unused/Inefficient/Over-complex/Over-long code and incorrect use of the Flex component lifecycle (commitProperties, etc.)</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p class="rteleft">In the last few days I fiddled with it and with it's fairly new eclipse plugin, and found it quite useful.</p>
<p class="rteleft"><br />
The plugin also includes a CPD (Copy &amp; Paste Detector) tool, that can identify code duplication which can be reduced by using functions or inheritance. I must admit I was overwhelmed by the amount of suspected code duplication it found in our code.</p>
<p class="rteleft"><br />
Another cool feature is the &quot;Monitor&quot; mode, where it only alerts of violations in files as you modify them.&nbsp;</p>
<p class="rteleft"><br />
One feature I miss is integration with cvs annotate command (svn blame). It would be great to have an &quot;Author&quot; column next to the error, and be able to group the errors by author. This would allow each developer to deal with its own violations.&nbsp;Strangely, I didn't see that feature implemented in&nbsp;<a href="http://findbugs.sourceforge.net/">findBugs</a>&nbsp;(finds bugs in Java code) as well.</p>
<p class="rteleft"><br />
Flex PMD comes with a built-in set of rules related to Cairngorm (Adobe's recommended framework) and Parsley (lately used by cairngorm) .<br />
Since I work on a PureMVC based project, we might come up with some PureMVC rules in the near future. I didn't find anything available on that direction.</p>
<p class="rteleft"><br />
The ability to delete a certain error is useful. However, it looks like it is only deleted locally on the developer's station. Other developers will still see it. <br />
&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
